Our next challenge is to convert a uppercase string into lowercase.
So uppercase to lowercase here already I have a string and string is welcome all in uppercase.
We have to convert this string into lowercase.
So what is the procedure?
How we can do this?
Fun.
So for this, we should be able to scan through this string character by character.
We should be able to go through each and every character so that we can do it using for loop.
Already we have seen it in the previous challenge or in some of the videos.
Now how to convert a letter from uppercase to lowercase.
So for this, if you know the ASCII code of capital, a uppercase is 65 and lowercase A is 97.
And if you take the difference, it is -32.
If I subtract all the difference is 32 means if a letter is in uppercase by adding 32, we can convert
it into lowercase and if it is a lowercase, we can change it to uppercase.
So the characters are stored as a numeric value.
We can add a 32 or subtract 32 from the characters.
So all these letters can be converted into lowercase by adding 32 to each of these characters.
For that, we have to scan for all these characters.
So by using a four loop, which we have already seen.
We can scan through this string.
Right.
Start off, I.
We can stop at null character.
So I will not write this one so you can do it.
And for every style of I, we should modify it.
By adding 32.
If everything is in uppercase, it should be converted into lowercase by adding 32.
So this is how it can be converted.
Now, one more thing.
Whether all these letters are in uppercase only, we are sure that these are all in uppercase.
If we are not sure, then it should check whether it is an uppercase or not.
So the range of uppercase is 65 to 90, starts from 65 and ends at 19.
So you should make sure that if a letter is having its ASCII code in between these two range values,
the range of values, then only it is uppercase, then you can convert it into lowercase.
But here, as an example, we will take everything in the case and simply we will convert it.
If you are taking different cases, then you should make sure that you check the range.
So that's it.
This is a simple procedure, so you can pause the video and write the complete program.
If you've got any mistakes and if you want help, you can continue playing this video.
You will find the solution followed by this one.
So pause the video and try it.
So here is the solution.
Already I have written a piece of code here, so a string is already declared here.
Now let us scan through this by using a for loop and modify all the characters.
So while Star of IE is not equal to null character, that is slash zero and I press plus and every time
I have to say star of I.
In that whatever the store of I is.
AD 32 So the letters will be changed.
So that's it.
So if you remember the previous program there, we were counting, but now we are modifying a string
outside the for loop.
I will print this one.
See out SDR as well as NL.
Let us run this.
Yes it is converted into lowercase.
So this is things converted into lowercase.
So I have done it using followup.
Now one more thing.
I'll change one of the letter to lowercase c.
Welcome.
So I will make it in small and lowercase m.
Now here I'm not checking anything.
I'm simply converting into lowercase by adding 32, so it will simply add a 32.
So this is what it will become.
I don't know.
I'll run and show you and will become something else.
Yes.
Some junkie character already was in lowercase, so 32 is added to it.
So it has gone beyond the range of characters.
So it's showing some Jun character so well.
Well.
Go is shown and then a character then is shown.
So you have to make sure that whether everything is in capital letters or not.
So for that, I can add one condition here.
If Star of I is greater than or equal to 65.
And still I should be less than or equal to 90.
Then only modify this.
Otherwise don't modify.
So I will use braces brackets.
I will use brackets.
Jim.
Now this is inside.
So this will be perform only if letter is in uppercase.
So I will get a perfect string.
So welcome.
Yes.
Already something was in lowercase, so I'm checking the condition and modifying it.
So that's it.
So try this on your machine.
Write the program and check it.
Now, our next challenge is similar to the previous one, but here everything we have to convert it
into uppercase.
Here, the string.
What I have taken is having mixed cases as well as numeric values.
Also there.
C is in lowercase and C is also lowercase and M is lowercase.
Right.
And there is a number.
So I have to check whether a letter is already in uppercase.
So don't change it.
If it is in lowercase, then change it to uppercase.
And if it is a number, then don't do anything.
Let it be a number only, so don't modify it so we know how to change the case by adding or subtracting.
32.
Right.
So here is already in capital letter.
That is uppercase.
Leave it.
This is a lowercase.
So from this if you subtract 32, then it will become uppercase.
So this is the case.
Leave it lowercase.
Change it.
So don't change.
Change.
Don't change.
Now here.
This is out of the range.
It's neither lowercase nor uppercase.
So don't touch it.
Don't change it.
So this is how you have to check whether it is lowercase or uppercase as well as if it is a number.
We don't have to do anything.
So.
So you have to change lowercase.
So check for lowercase and change it.
If it is uppercase, you don't have to touch it.
And if it is any other alphabet, any other symbol, then also you don't have to change it.
So it's a very simple code.
You have to scan through a string and if any lowercase is found, just change it so you can try this
program by yourself.
So post the video and do it.
So after the video, I'll give a solution.
Yeah.
Let us write the program now.
See, I have a string already taken here.
This is having mixed cases.
So as I told you all, we have to just modify this lowercase.
We don't have to touch any other thing.
So it is a simple program, just like a previous example.
So we will scan, throw this array for integer assign I assign zero and str of I as not equal to null
character.
That A-plus plus.
Now inside this, we have to check a condition.
If it is a lowercase, then change it.
So if it is a lower case.
So the steer of I.
If it is greater than or equal to 97 and store of I.
Less than or equal to.
So what is the last value in the range?
It is 122.
Now stratify.
We should subtract 32 so we can also do it like this minus assign.
32, so 32 will be subtracted and stored in str or off itself.
Now after this saves out str and nl.
Yes, everything is converted into uppercase and number seven remains as it is.
So we are only changing lowercase alphabets to uppercase, that's all.
So it's a simple solution so you can try this program.